Detective, you're entering the chrono observatory.
Don't touch anything that glows red or blue. Actually, just don't touch anything.
Our subject is a Orion Flux, seasoned forecaster and a brilliant mind.
Until last week, when his ability to estimate time broke down severely,
he told the board he'd finish two-hour task in 30 minutes,
said a five-day analysis cycle would take... one afternoon
Now he's drowning in overdue work and shattered expectations.
That's time compression bias.
People think things will take less time than they actually do.
One of the most dangerous errors in the city. These warped timelines spread like viruses.
If they don't get corrected, entire departments fall into schedule chaos.
You need to master planning accuracy. It's one of the pillars of time mastery. First rule.
Whatever time you think a task will take, multiply it by 1.5,
not because you're slow, but because the universe is messy,
unexpected calls, mini emergencies, loading screens, human delays,
everything takes longer in reality than in your head.
Second rule: group similar tasks into single blocks,
emails with emails, analysis with analysis, reviews with reviews.
This reduces cognitive switching. Every switch costs time. You may not feel it, but your brain does.
third rule: humans get about six hours of real productive output per day.
Not eight, not ten, six.
if you plan for more than that, you're not planning, you're fantasizing.
and finally, buffers. insert 10 to 15 minutes between major tasks.
that's your breathing room, your decompression, your...
protection against unexpected delays.
If you follow these rules, you will overcome your time compression bias.